["I Work Hard" by Mike Epps playing]
♪ That's a big ol' watch. a big ol' chain
A big-ass truck ♪
♪ I work hard. bitch ♪
♪ How you get the big ol' crib
A bad chick with a big ol' butt? ♪
♪ I work hard. bitch ♪
♪ If I want it
I'mma buy it. nigga. trust ♪
♪ I don't check the price. nigga
I don't give a fuck… ♪
[male announcer] Ladies and gentlemen.
live from Yaamava' Theater.
put your hands together for Mike Epps!
[audience cheering loudly]
♪ I was so broke
I used to think about robbing ♪
♪ Had a iPhone. no money. Steve Jobless ♪
♪ Now I got the kinda money
You would call obnoxious ♪
♪ And I went and bought a Benz
That motherfucker's topless… ♪
[Epps] What's up. Yaamava'?
[cheering loudly]
Where the sexy ladies at?
[audience cheering. screaming. whistling]
Man. y'all looking good as hell
out here tonight. man.
Thank y'all for coming out.
[audience cheering loudly. whistling]
Where the Mexicans at?
Now. I got a side door
just in case ICE is outside.
[audience laughing]
'Cause you know
them dirty motherfuckers is out here.
"Yeah. I know where they at.
They at the Mike Epps show tonight."
[audience laughing]
Yeah. man. Donald Trump
fucking with the Mexicans.
I ain't had a taco in two weeks.
[audience laughing]
My taco man running now.
He's been selling his shit out the house.
"Come to the house. come to the house."
[audience laughing. scattered applause]
But I love the Mexicans. man.
They can't keep the Mexicans out. man.
They can't keep 'em out.
[cheering loudly. whistling]
The Mexicans is cold.
They'll come through a cloud on your ass.
[audience laughing]
I've seen a Mexican jump out of a Mexican.
Motherfucker just jumped out.
I said. "Hey man. there was a Mexican
inside that Mexican. man."
[audience laughing]
Donald Trump ain't shit. man.
He made the Mexicans build a wall.
[audience cheering loudly.
clapping. whistling]
I better not go to jail.
'cause I won't be getting pardoned
after this shit.
[audience laughing]
[imitating Trump] He's like.
"No. you said some nasty things about me
at the Yaamava'."
"And I heard that shit. Mike."
-[audience laughing]
-[laughing]
He don't give a fuck. man.
You know what I mean?
Half the motherfuckers
that he's fucking with voted for him.
[audience cheering]
Ain't that a bitch?
[audience] Yeah!
The street niggas love Trump.
I'm telling you that right now.
Drug dealers. they love him.
'Cause they crooks too.
That's why they like him.
He needs to stop wearing
them cheap-ass suits. I know that.
He got to be getting them suits
from Macy's. man.
[audience laughing]
And his team ain't shit.
He got Dr. Oz standing behind him.
What the fuck?
What is his punk-ass gonna do?
[audience laughing]
They got these…
All my shit is out there on these ships.
I can't even get half my shit.
I'm gonna get a boat and go out there
and get my clippers off that goddamn ship.
[audience laughing]
"Man. throw them goddamn clippers
off that ship."
[audience laughing. whooping]
They got a lot of stuff on them tariffs.
You know. that… that tariff shit is real.
One of the first things I seen on there
was hair weave.
[audience laughing]
Now. I'm gonna tell you.
you hoes better load up.
because he's about to…
[audience laughing]
There about to be
some bald-headed newborn chickens like…
[inaudible]
[audience laughing. clapping]
Finna look like some onions
around this motherfucker.
[inaudible]
[audience laughing. cheering]
If Black people think we gonna get away.
niggas is next.
[audience laughing]
We gonna come outside.
There gonna be a bunch of boats lined up.
We gonna think it's that Carnival Cruise.
We gonna come out there.
♪ This is how we do it ♪
[mimics whooshing]
"Nigga. get back on that boat."
[audience laughing. clapping]
You know
Black people can't stick together. Shit.
As soon as Black people get some money.
the first thing we do.
"Uh-uh. I don't wanna be around
no Black people. Get them…"
"Oh no. there goes some Black people.
Get them niggas away from here."
"I don't deal with no Black people."
[audience laughing]
If Black people got a spot
where we eat at.
and we think
we the only Black people there.
if we see some more Black people come.
"Oh. there goes our spot right there."
"They done fucked our spot up."
"This ain't y'all's spot."
[audience laughing. cheering. clapping]
That's messed up. man.
I thought Diddy was getting out. man.
I thought he was getting out.
Yeah. that's fucked up. man.
They got Diddy on a…
not a RICO charge. but a Freak-o charge.
[audience laughing]
The man is in jail for being a freak. man.
If they found out some of the shit I did.
I'd be in an electric chair now.
All the late-night midget bitches
I done fucked all over the United States.
[audience laughing. clapping. cheering]
Man. they would've let Diddy out early.
but they had him on camera
with that towel running out of there.
Kicked Cassie in the foot
and ran back in the room.
I said. "See.
that's what sent him to jail right there."
[audience laughing]
Yeah. I was never invited
to the Diddy parties.
I used to see him.
but he never invited me.
[audience laughing]
'Cause I know I'd have had my dick out
somewhere in that par…
[audience laughing]
"There goes Mike Epps."
[audience laughing loudly]
"I'm telling you.
he in this room right here. Come here."
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
Everybody in here a freak.
If they put a red light
on everybody's head.
this whole place would light up.
-[laughing]
-[audience laughing. whistling. whooping]
You know. I don't feel sorry
for the girls who got drugged.
'Cause they were drinking free drinks.
That's where the drugs is at.
You want some free shit? Come on.
Let me get some of this free drug punch.
[audience laughing]
[smacks tongue]
It's got to be fucked up
to be famous. man. and locked up.
[audience chuckling]
They probably walk up to Diddy
all the time. man.
"What's that one song y'all did. uh. uh?"
[audience laughing]
"Damn! Oh. yeah.
You and Faith Evans. man."
You know what fucks me up?
White people think we all the same.
Black people.
they don't know us from a can of paint.
I'm sitting on a plane
with an older white lady.
I'm just sitting. Everybody's speaking
to me. "Hey. Mike Epps. Mike Epps."
She's sitting right next to me.
She said. "Who are you?" I said…
[audience laughing loudly]
I said. "Chris Brown." I said…
I said. "Yep. Chris Breezy. That's me."
She said. "Oh. I knew I knew you."
I said. "Yep. that's me. I'm Chris Brown
on my way to do a show right now."
-[laughing]
-[audience laughing. whooping]
And she must've been on the phone
with her daughter
telling her daughter
she's sitting next to Chris Brown.
And I could tell the way she was looking.
Her daughter must have said.
"That is not no fucking Chris Brown."
"Whoever that man is.
is fucking lying to you."
Because she started looking at me
on the phone like this.
[audience laughing. clapping]
I said. "Whoever on the phone with you.
let her know I'm Chris Brown."
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
[audience cheering. laughing. clapping]
Yeah!
Yeah! [laughing]
There's some beautiful ladies
in here tonight.
Where the beautiful ladies at?
Where the beautiful ladies?
[women cheering. clapping]
There's some ugly bitches in here too.
[mumbling]
Yeah. some ugly bitches snuck in too.
[audience laughing]
I can't stand for
a ugly motherfucker to play hard to get.
Hell. you hard to want. Shit.
[audience laughing. scattered applause]
[audience whooping]
Let me tell you something.
If you're ugly… work out. Go to the gym.
And stay clean.
And I'll fuck you.
[audience laughing loudly.
clapping. cheering]
Yeah. Just 'cause you look good
don't mean you smell good.
I done had some fine fishy hoes
in my motherfucking lifetime.
You know what I'd do?
I'd turn that seat heater on.
[audience cheering. laughing]
And when I smell a fish filet frying.
I'll tell you. "Get up out of here!"
[audience laughing. scattered applause]
Women always think we gave them something.
"My coochie's itching."
"You done drank a case of Pepsi."
[audience laughing loudly]
"Pepsi will itch your pussy up too."
[audience laughing]
"Look. there's a bump. There's a bump."
"Bust it. There's Pepsi in it."
[audience laughing loudly]
Yeah. New generation pussy busted Pepsi.
[audience laughing]
Every man in here thought he had AIDS
at least once.
Come on. fellas. Let's admit it.
We done fucked some woman raw
and couldn't sleep for two years.
-Where you at?
-[audience laughing]
Sitting there self-diagnosing yourself.
"Yep. that's me right there."
"Can't sleep. diarrhea. headaches.
I'm dead."
[audience laughing]
You start going to the gym.
"I'm gonna run this shit out of me."
[audience laughing]
[laughing]
You ever fucked a girl raw
and couldn't sleep
for two years after that?
You just kept calling.
looking at the shit.
and then you just call the girl.
You know. like. you can't call a girl
if you fucked a girl raw
and ask her the next day.
"Do you have AIDS?"
[audience laughing]
No. you gotta say… [chuckling]
…"Boy. I'm glad you were clean."
[audience laughing]
And if she don't say nothing.
you're like. "Hey. did you hear
what the fuck I just said?"
[audience laughing. scattered applause]
I don't know how people get in
these long. fucked up relationships
because you ought
to be able to tell on the first date.
Serious. People tell you
who the fuck they are.
Like. you're sitting there with a woman
and you just say. "Girl. you crazy."
If she say. "I know. Everybody say that."
[audience laughing loudly]
It's time to get the fuck out right now.
"Let's stop right now.
Don't order nothing else. Let's go."
Same with you ladies. You're sitting there
with a guy. Y'all sitting there.
This motherfucker got diamonds on.
got a big Rolls-Royce.
You're like. "So what do you do?"
And he's like. uh… uh…
"Yeah. I got a lawn care service."
[audience laughing]
And you done got excited.
and you finna get indicted.
Both of y'all going to jail.
He's a drug dealer.
[audience laughing]
What's up with these girls
with these big-ass BBLs
that come with the teeth too?
Got the ass and the…
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
Is that a package?
The booty and the teeth come together?
Looks like baby shoes in their mouth.
[audience laughing]
What the fuck?
And I don't know what it is.
The finer the woman. the broker they are.
Beautiful and poor as hell.
No. that's real shit. And all the women
that look like Kodak Black bank account.
these hoes got 413CKs.
Is that what they call it?
I don't know what the fuck it is.
I didn't get the education
I was supposed to get.
but I fucked around and got famous.
[audience laughing.
clapping. cheering. whistling]
So you're looking at
a slow guy that made it.
[audience laughing]
'Cause I didn't go to fucking… I don't…
My… my… my math is fucked up. you know?
And common sense
has helped me survive in my life.
I don't know if you have any.
but. uh. common sense helped me survive.
Serious.
'Cause I remember
when I first got in the business. man.
and I had this accountant.
and they was handling my money.
but I really wasn't good at math.
And I just used to say.
"Yeah. yeah. I understand."
but I didn't understand.
I said. "So how the fuck can I get them
to stop stealing my money?"
So you know what I did?
They had a big-ass meeting one day.
I was sitting in the meeting.
I just dropped a gun out of my pocket.
"Sorry about that.
I didn't mean to drop that."
"I hope you guys have a great evening."
Right then I said.
"They'll never steal nothing else."
"If they were stealing.
they ain't gonna steal again."
"'Cause I'mma shoot the shit out of you
if I find out."
[audience laughing]
There's all kind of beautiful women
in here.
We got white. Spanish. We got all kinds…
I've been with Black women my whole life.
I'mma just give it up.
You know what I'm saying?
That's all I've ever been with.
[audience cheering. whistling]
And I'm tired.
Y'all have wore me out.
[audience laughing loudly]
You heifers have took. uh.
millions of dollars from me.
[audience laughing]
No. I'm serious.
That's all I've ever been with was
Black women. man. Yeah.
And if anything ever happens.
which I pray and hope not.
that I'll never have to deal with
another Black…
I'll get an Asian woman
that don't speak English.
I'm tired of this shit.
And all she gonna say is.
"Oh. Mike. your dick is too big. nigga."
[audience laughing loudly]
"You hurt a bitch. bro."
"Oh. your dick is too big. nigga."
I'mma say. "Go on
and turn that green tea on
like I asked you to earlier today."
There's a lot of guys in here sitting with
their-- I don't know if it's your wife.
your… your woman.
your girlfriend. or whatever it is.
but I just wanna tell you
your position with her.
I don't care how much money you got.
That's your caretaker.
[audience laughing. scattered applause]
That's right.
These women are your caretaker.
They might as well hold your arm
while you walk.
[scattered applause]
'Cause these women take care of us.
These are our caretakers.
I'mma tell you something. Caretaker--
-[woman cheers]
-Yeah. that's right.
-[audience clapping. cheering. whistling]
-Women are caretakers.
Your money ain't shit if you ain't got
nobody to help you take care of it.
[audience laughing]
Ain't that right. ladies?
[women cheering]
You need somebody
to take care of that money. man.
And that's why God gave them
a little bit more sense than us.
God made them a little smarter.
a lot more smarter than us.
A lot of us are real slow
when it comes to…
Most of us… All of us…
[audience laughing loudly]
…are usually dumb as a motherfucker
when it come to women.
All right?
Now. women don't tell you you're dumb
'cause they know
that'll shatter your life.
That'll fuck your life clean up.
But they will tell their friends.
[audience laughing loudly]
When they're on the phone
with their friends. and you're not around.
that's what they say.
"This is the dumbest motherfucker
that I've ever met."
"God. he's dumb!"
"Girl. let me tell you
what his dumbass did last night."
"Big dum-dum has just walked in.
I'll call you back."
[audience laughing. clapping]
They got all kind of nerve.
"Goofy's home. I'll call you back."
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
We don't even know
they're saying this shit about us.
[audience laughing]
You know what else they say about us?
This is one that'll fuck you up.
They tell you this in your face. "Wow."
[audience laughing loudly]
"Really? Wow."
That means
you are the dumbest motherfucker that…
[audience laughing. clapping]
Ladies. you wanna hear
what we say about you?
-You wanna hear it?
-[women] Yeah!
"Shut the fuck up."
[audience laughing loudly. whooping]
Go get some Ozempic or something.
No. I'm just playing.
[audience laughing. clapping]
♪ Oh. oh. oh. it's magic ♪
-[audience laughing loudly]
-[singing indistinct]
♪ T-d-d-da-d-da ♪
See. they don't want to hear that shit.
They mad now 'cause I said that.
[audience laughing. clapping]
Women have asked God
to fuck you up for them.
You ever hear that?
"God. please get him
in the name of Lord Jesus."
"Hallelujah. get this nigga."
[audience laughing. clapping]
That's what women say.
"Oh boy. you in trouble.
God don't play about me. You… You…"
"Karma's coming back on your ass
right now."
"God don't play about me."
"That shit you did to me yesterday.
God is coming. I'm telling you."
[audience laughing. cheering]
"I didn't do nothing
but use your products."
"You gonna put God on me
'cause I used your products?"
Women break up with a man
and just go the fuck on with their life.
You be looking at them like.
"You're supposed to be fucking hurt
like me."
[audience laughing]
No. they go golfing and shit.
That's what women do.
When they break up with a man.
they go start doing new shit
you ain't never seen them do.
Go get a haircut.
Gotta look like a rooster now.
You're like. "What the fuck?"
This new guy
got you looking crazy as fuck.
[audience laughing]
We don't know how to go on with our life.
We start picking scumbag bitches
to be our wife.
[audience laughing]
You don't want your wife to see
your new wife. "Oh. God."
"You went backwards."
[audience laughing]
"This new bitch you got make me feel like
I shouldn't have never dealt with you."
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
"She looks horrible."
When you break up with your woman.
it gives your friend a chance to say
all the shit he been wanting to say.
"Fuck her. man."
"Shark-faced bitch."
You go. "Hey. hey. hey!
I still love her. Relax. man."
"We still got a chance."
[audience laughing]
Women are powerful as hell.
They know how to turn
the whole fucking house on your ass.
[women whooping]
Kids ain't talking to you.
Even the dog wasn't playing.
I said. "Fuck you too. you little bitch."
"All the chicken bones
I done gave your punk ass."
[audience laughing. clapping]
The whole family be in one bedroom.
You got the house to…
the rest to yourself.
You see 'em bringing food
from the kitchen. "Love you. Daddy."
[audience laughing loudly]
"We're praying for you."
You in the living room hungry
and lonely as hell.
Ain't no TV on. Nothing.
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
And if you don't get with nobody.
you just go to the Whole Foods
and just stand there
with a whole bunch of other lonely-ass men
at the hot bar.
There ain't no food at the house.
I'mma tell y'all something
you may not know about me.
When I was young.
I fucked a lot of older women. man.
That was one of my things.
A lot of my aunties' friends.
I fucked 'em.
[audience laughing loudly]
One of my aunties had a friend named Nell.
and boy. I was nailing her.
[audience laughing]
And she told me. "You better not tell."
I said. "I ain't gonna say shit."
"Don't you… don't you say nothing."
"That's the key."
I've been watching a lot of Black men try
to figure out how to survive.
And one of the hustles
and one of the great survival tactics is
getting a white girl.
[audience laughing]
And when I see brothers with white girls.
it look like they're holding onto
a life raft in the ocean.
[audience laughing]
And it look like they're floating.
[mimics waves crashing]
No chance of drowning.
You and a white girl just hit…
[mimics waves crashing] …hit a big wave.
Hold on to the white girl.
That's right.
Yeah.
Because especially if you got a white girl
and y'all are in the car.
police pull you over. "Handle that. Sarah.
Just go out… get out of the car."
[audience laughing. scattered applause]
White girls are mean to the police.
"Why are you pulling us over?"
[audience laughing loudly]
Black girl gets out.
they're gonna hit that bitch in the head
with a billy club. lock her up.
take her to the county jail.
[audience laughing]
That's another reason
why Black guys date white women.
You ain't gotta fucking pay rent
when you live with them.
[audience laughing]
They feel so guilty about all the shit
that happened to Black people.
That's why they don't charge you rent
when you live with them.
You can pay a white girl the rent in dick.
[audience laughing]
I'mma give you $3.500 worth of this dick
to clear the water. lights. everything.
Black women come to your goddamn job
looking for your check. You working.
[audience laughing]
Shanini is outside in the parking lot.
"Who the fuck?"
She in the parking lot.
"I'm waiting on the check." [mumbling]
"Can I get the fuck off work first?"
[audience laughing]
Black women. white women.
all different kinds of ethnicities.
They're all different. A white woman.
you can cheat on her. She won't get mad.
She'll say.
"Okay. that's it. You need help."
[audience laughing loudly]
"You really do. You need help."
"I get it."
"Someone fucked you when you were a kid.
Now you wanna fuck everybody else."
You're like.
"Hey. when did I tell you that?"
[audience laughing loudly]
"I get it. Raymond."
[chuckles]
The Black people are dying laughing.
The other ethnicities are in here like…
[audience laughing loudly]
"This really goes on in their culture?"
"It's a lot of trauma."
[audience laughing. clapping]
[chuckling]
[audience cheering]
Look like
the city of Compton is in here tonight.
[audience cheering]
Yeah.
[chuckling]
'Cause that's what I attract. I attract
all kinds of different types of people.
That's my group right there.
-[woman cheering]
-You know what I mean? Yeah.
[audience cheering. clapping]
-Yeah.
-[woman] I'm gonna have your baby.
[audience laughing]
[Mike laughing]
I don't give a fuck what you wanna do.
[audience laughing loudly]
I'mma tell you what ain't gonna happen.
[audience laughing]
[laughing]
I love you too.
All these years. I thought
I was getting women off my looks.
Nope. I've been spending money
the whole time.
[audience laughing]
I'm a fucking trick.
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
'Cause that's what I do.
First off. I buy you a purse.
Yeah. I buy you a purse.
Then I buy you a car.
[audience laughing]
Then I take you traveling.
"Yeah. you wanna go traveling?"
"Only in the United States. though."
"I'll take you to Florida or somewhere.
You haven't earned a passport yet."
Then I get engaged to you.
[chuckles]
Then I marry you.
Then you catch me cheating
and take me to court.
take everything I got.
[audience laughing loudly]
In that order.
'Cause I'mma tell you some real shit.
Women cheat in their head.
You know what I mean?
They think about who they wanna fuck.
If you could see the men
that your woman is fucking in her head.
you would get rid of her right now.
[audience laughing]
You'll be like.
"Melvin. the fucking UPS man?"
[audience laughing]
This nigga got the nice legs with the box.
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
"I'mma kill his ass in the morning."
[audience laughing]
"Melvin. you're dead."
[chuckles]
And I'm looking at all the people in here.
you know what I'm saying?
And I don't like to pick on white people.
but I think
all white people are the police.
[audience laughing loudly]
That's right.
All white people are the fucking police.
'Cause they can get 'em there
quicker than you.
I was at the… uh… I was at the. uh.
Sporting Goods. Dick's Sporting Goods.
and a Black dude had
all his shit up there.
He got his shit at the counter.
paying for his shit.
got all his shit up there.
He told the lady.
"Hey. man. I gotta grab something else."
She said. "If you get out of the line.
you see it's a long line.
I gotta let the rest of…"
He said. "Ma'am. relax.
I'm going right there."
He… She said. "Man… Sir. if you do…"
So he got mad.
He was like. "That's bullshit."
Man. there was a white dude
standing in line.
and he had nothing to do with it.
He said. "Calm down. buddy."
[audience laughing loudly]
I said. "Oh. shit."
So the Black dude got mad. "Motherfucker.
you ain't got nothing to do with this."
I said. "Oh. here the shit go."
Do you know the fucking white guy pulled
some handcuffs out of his pocket?
[audience laughing]
And I don't know what it is
about Black people.
but sometimes we just get relaxed
with the… when the police…
We just… He just put his arm.
and he said. "Man. I ain't do nothing."
[audience laughing loudly.
scattered applause]
Do you know this fucking white guy
put the handcuffs on this dude
and pulled his regular phone out
and called the police?
[audience laughing]
So everybody was like. "Wait a minute.
he ain't the fucking police."
So the dude started going crazy.
He's like.
"Motherfucker. take these handcuffs."
Police show up 15 deep.
Guns out. police everywhere.
Locked the white guy up
for being a fake cop.
Did you see… did you see that shit?
Locked him up
for impersonating the police.
[audience clapping]
I'm looking for the Black guy.
I… I said. "Where's the Black guy?"
He's still in handcuffs in the car.
They've been looking for this motherfucker
for ten years.
I said. "It's hard
to help a fugitive. man."
I'm telling you. man.
You know what's crazy? I've been thinking…
I thought I was Black all these years.
I'm 55 years old.
I'm thinking I'm a Black… I'm a Black man.
I've been calling white people "crackers"
and all kinds of shit
I ain't supposed to be saying
about white people.
I go to Africa.
I ain't never going back over there again.
[audience laughing loudly]
'Cause I'm thinking I'm Black. [mumbling]
Man. I'm getting my bag
and two African dudes over there.
That motherfucker said.
"You… They not like us."
I said. "Who ain't like y'all?"
[audience laughing]
He's talking about me.
[audience cheering]
I said. "What the fuck
are you talking about?"
He said. "No. you're not like us."
I said. "Who am I like?"
He said. "I don't know."
I said. "Oh. that's some bullshit."
I said. "I'm a Black man from Amer…"
He said. "No. no. no. no. no."
"You need to go do your ancestry.com…
[audience laughing loudly]
…to tell a little more about who you are."
I said. "Okay. I'mma go do it."
Smart ass motherfucker. I'mma go do it.
I went and did it like a fucking dummy.
You know how they got the box
to show you the ethnicity?
White man popped up in the second box.
[audience laughing loudly]
I'm white.
Look at my nose from the side.
That ain't no nigga nose.
I look like the man on the dime.
Look at the little white man on the dime.
[audience laughing. clapping. whistling]
I've been talking
all this Black power shit.
and I'm white as hell.
[audience laughing]
Ain't that a bitch?
You know. the crazy thing about life. man.
a lot of people think
they're going to heaven. and they're not.
Especially old people.
They swear up and down
'cause they lived a lot of years.
they're going to heaven.
Yeah.
"Oh. good Lord waiting on me."
"No. you did some shit in the '40s."
"He gonna get your ass.
You ain't getting away with that."
"Think you finna outlive your sin?"
[audience laughing]
[woman yelling indistinct]
That sounds like
some cabbage and shit over there.
[mocking laughter]
Yeah. you ain't getting away
around this motherfucker
'cause people be talking about.
"Oh. man. he's in a better place."
Like hell is empty.
[audience laughing]
Yeah.
And you're gonna get to heaven.
You're gonna get up there and see
a lot of people that didn't get in.
like your friend's grandmother.
Miss Turner.
[audience laughing]
"Miss Turner. what did--" "Oh baby…
baby. I don't know what happened."
[audience laughing]
"And I looked at Jesus.
He seen me and kept going in there."
[audience laughing. scattered applause]
"You've seen
the Bible ministry that I do."
Mental health is real.
I'm telling you. man.
Mental health is fucking real.
And if you know anybody
having mental health problems. man.
be really patient with them.
You know?
'Cause it's really real. you know.
and they need people that love them.
you know?
It's like. I had a friend call me
the other day. He was sad and shit.
I said. "What's wrong?"
He said. "I don't wanna do it no more."
I said. "Hey. man.
we ain't gonna… we don't do that.
You know what I mean?"
"We got… we got faith in God.
We're gonna stay strong."
"We're gonna give ourself another day."
-You know what I'm saying? Yeah.
-[audience cheering. clapping]
Yeah. we don't give up that soon.
You only get one life.
We ain't giving up in this life.
He said. "It's time to go. right?"
I said. "Yeah." I was talking to him.
'Cause I know what he was going through.
so I put some money in…
I… I sent him some money and shit.
And I called him the next day.
I said. "How are you doing?"
He said. "A lot better."
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
[chuckles]
Two weeks later. his wife called.
"Oh. man.
Ray don't want to do it no more."
I said. "Oh God. here we go."
I said. "Hey. hey. hey. hey. hey. hey.
let… let him do it this time."
"I'm tired."
"I'm tired. He's tired."
"You're tired."
[audience laughing]
"The earth ain't a place for him.
Let him go on."
"Everybody don't do well here.
I'm tired of it."
And I don't have no more "save you" money
to save no more lives.
I thought I was having a heart attack.
I'm lying on the ground.
Paramedics and shit.
This is real shit. I'm on the ground.
Something told me to look up.
I seen the police. I said.
"Wait a minute. No. no. no. no. no. no."
"I didn't call y'all.
Get y'all's ass out of here."
"Don't start that shit right there."
'Cause while I'm on the ground.
they're in the house searching for shit.
Them niggas in the back.
They find something.
"We're gonna get it after this.
We got you. Look what we got right here."
"When they're done with you.
we'll look at what we got. so let 'em…"
Now. I might. you know. be shining up here
and. you know.
trying to look like something.
but I ain't always. you know.
had a little gloss to me. y'all.
I… I started off dusty. you know?
Yeah. I started off real dusty.
That's why they're talking about
cutting them food stamps off.
I been there.
I had mine cut off a long time ago.
[audience laughing]
I've been on food stamps.
then got cut off and all that shit.
I grew up
with a social worker coming to our house.
Some white lady come in there.
and your mother. "Y'all go play."
[audience laughing]
You stay to listen to your mother.
Your mother be cussing her out.
"Bitch. I don't have to tell you nothing
about my personal life."
[audience laughing. clapping. cheering]
Back in the day.
if you was on food stamps.
you couldn't have a man at your house.
So your uncle be over there.
and the social worker show up.
"Get out of here. Tony."
You see your uncle running out.
[audience laughing loudly]
The lady. "We seen a man in your house."
"We're gonna cut your food stamps."
[laughing]
That's crazy as a motherfucker. man.
You know. I started off working jobs.
I had a lot of jobs. you know.
I worked at Hardee's.
You ever heard of that?
[audience] Yeah.
That's some Midwest shit. yeah.
I worked at Hardee's.
I worked…
Every job I worked at. I sold drugs on it.
[audience laughing]
So I was the weed man on all my jobs.
And the boss would wonder why I had more
than the rest of the employees.
[chuckles]
When you sell drugs on a job.
you can give out credit till Friday.
[audience laughing]
[chuckling]
Then I graduated. [exhales]
That's how I was doing.
I was working at 7-Eleven.
I was bagging groceries and shit.
And my friends that started selling crack
was coming in the store buying baggies.
You know the little sandwich baggies?
They was coming in there buying baggies.
They had jewelry on.
They was laughing at me.
"You still sacking groceries?"
I was like. "What y'all doing?"
See. I had no business selling drugs
'cause I was a Jehovah's Witness.
[audience laughing]
How do you go door-to-door to car-to-car?
Yeah. I didn't have no business…
My mother didn't know I was selling crack.
I was so excited to sell crack.
and I didn't know what I was doing.
'Cause I was watching the videos and shit.
I was listening to N.W.A. And I was like.
"Oh. I'm getting in this shit."
And my big brother. John.
he just kept saying.
"Yeah. I got a black suit for you."
I'm like. "For what?"
He's like. "Nigga.
you gonna get fucked up."
But don't forget
I was a Jehovah's Witness.
so I was a nice drug dealer.
That's why the drug addicts liked me.
You know. I was real nice. I felt sorry
for the people that I was selling dope.
Before I gave it to 'em. I'd say.
"You really need to change your life."
[audience laughing]
And then I'll sell it to them.
"Give me the money anyway."
Somebody else is gonna get the money.
And one time I sold it to an informant.
It was a club called M&J's.
It was like a nightclub.
And I had just copped.
I had just got my…
You know how when you first cop?
I just spent my money on my dope.
I bagged it up.
And I'm sitting over in the car
at the park. and I sold some dope.
The dude… Something told me. "Don't sell
this shit to this motherfucker."
'Cause he… he was moving too fast.
He's like. "Come on.
I gotta get… I gotta get up out of here."
And I sold it to him. man.
And as soon as I sold it to him.
and I got out the car.
the motherfucking narcos rolled up on me.
Took me to jail
for dealing in possession of cocaine
over seven grams.
And if you Google "Mike Epps mug shot"
on your phone right now.
you will see
where I caught that case. 1990.
Look at the picture.
I'mma give you a second.
Oh. you ain't got no phone?
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
Imagine me in 1990.
When you get home. Google that shit.
Yeah. I'm sitting there. man.
The motherfucker got…
Uh. and I kept trying to tell
the drug officer.
I'm like. "Man. I… I'm… I'm a user."
He said. "No. you ain't no user."
I said. "Yes. I am. I use drugs."
He said.
"No. that was too much for a user."
"You was selling it."
So the guy who set me up was
a drug addict too. They couldn't find him.
They was trying to make him come
to court to testify on me.
but they couldn't find him.
So I went from 20 years to 8 years.
They suspended five.
and I did two years
in the Marion County Jail in my hometown.
Two years in the Marion County Jail.
And I'm sitting up
in the motherfucking jail. man. and I'm…
I'm… I don't look that much different
than I do now.
I ain't had no hair on my face.
had curly hair.
I'm sitting in there with some real goons.
And that story about don't drop the soap
and the predators.
that shit's real.
[audience laughing]
I'm sitting up in the jail.
and a dude just walked up to…
I don't know what the fuck…
This motherfucker looked like
a swollen snake. He was big.
He just walked up on me and said.
"I'mma hit you in your throat."
I said. "What the fuck? What?"
"Nigga. I ain't even did nothing.
I… I don't even know you."
I guess he wanted to…
he was trying to fuck me.
That's how they do it. They…
They bully you.
and then if you let them bully you.
they bully you.
So he… I guess he thought
he was trying to set me up for that.
I said. "Oh. I gotta figure something."
I kept saying to myself.
"I'mma bite this nigga
if… if nothing else."
A bite is a bad motherfucker. yeah.
Somebody get you on the ground. bite 'em.
They're getting up.
I'm biting the shit out you. nigga.
[audience laughing]
Big Mac style.
Wherever you got me on the ground.
I'm biting the fuck out of you.
[audience laughing]
Nigga didn't know I was finna use my mouth
on that nigga for real.
[audience laughing loudly]
I'm sitting up in the jail. I'm… I'm like.
"Damn." Boy. I'm nervous as hell.
And I seen a dude. man. named Louie.
He was big.
He looked crazier than the other dude.
And he said. "Mike?" I said. "Louie?"
And he was a drug addict.
This dude. Louie. on the street.
he was a drug addict.
On the street. he was real shriveled up.
He was dirty.
But in jail. when he get his rest.
and he's eating and working out.
he looked like a monster.
And I said. "Louie?"
He said. "Mike. what you doing here?"
I said. "Man. I was trying to sell
some dope and got caught."
He said. "Man. you know you ain't the type
of person who's supposed to be in here."
He said. "How's your sister?"
He knew my sister.
He said. "How's Julie doing?"
I said. "Man. she's doing good."
He said. "Man. if you have any problems…"
I said. "I got one right now."
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
I said. "God is good. nigga.
and I got favor. You hear me?"
"I got favor."
He said. "Who?"
I said.
"He's standing over there right now."
He said. "Point him out." I said. "No."
I said. "He just… uh… he's looking at us."
'Cause I didn't know if I pointed at him…
I said. "I ain't pointing at him.
He's over there."
Man. he went over there
and whispered in the dude's ear.
And when he backed up. he came back to me.
He said. "Yeah. Mike. check this out."
"The dude right there.
he's a… he's a bully. but he's a bitch."
"He ain't supposed to look at you.
talk to you. walk past you."
I said. "Oh. thank you."
So the whole time I was in jail.
this other dude
was walking past me like this…
[audience laughing]
I said. "Oh Lord.
what the fuck did he say to him?"
[audience laughing]
Thank you.
So. you know. I got out of jail.
I started sleeping on my sister's couch.
I ain't had nowhere to stay.
You know. I just had a new baby.
which is my daughter Bria.
My oldest daughter.
You know. if I could do
anything in the world. man.
if I could explain to my daughter
that I was a kid when I had you.
I wasn't gonna be a good dad.
You know what I mean?
Sometimes it takes years
for you to become a good dad.
You know?
It's called babies having babies.
And when your baby is mad at you
'cause she don't realize
you was a baby when you had her.
-So it take time to grow.
-[man] Yeah.
So I had my daughter.
I'm sleeping on my sister's couch.
I ain't got no education.
I ain't got no job.
Selling motherfucking drugs.
I ain't got no money.
I owe a couple drug dealers money
in the city.
I'm lying on the couch.
and I'll never forget my baby mama.
She had an auntie named Janet. real sweet.
Used to come to Indiana from Atlanta.
She said. "Mike. hear you're having
a hard time in Indianapolis."
"If you ever need to get out
of Indianapolis and move to Atlanta
and change your life.
you can stay with me."
So I… I said. "Okay.
I'm gonna hold you to that. Janet."
Meanwhile. they got a comedy competition
on the radio.
"Come to next week's comedy competition
here at Club Seville's."
And I'm… I got two buddies.
a buddy named Otis Brown. Gary Bates.
They betted me.
They said. "Mike. you funny around here.
You funny in jail. you all that shit."
"But I bet you can't go up there
and be funny in front of people."
I said. bet.
We go to Club Seville's. They bet me $500.
When we walk in the club.
it's a bar and grill.
Nothing but street motherfuckers in there.
There's smoke everywhere.
I'm standing in the back getting drunk.
I said. "I'm scared as a motherfucker.
I'm gonna tear their ass up."
I'm in the back getting drunk.
They're booing everybody off the stage.
I get up on the stage.
I make everybody laugh.
-Boom! Everybody laughing.
-[audience cheering]
First time I went on stage.
The next week. my name was on the radio.
"Come next week. Club Seville's.
Mike Epps. new comedian." [mumbling]
So now the whole city coming up to me.
"Man. I heard you on the radio."
"You doing your comedy?"
I said. "Yeah. I'm doing my comedy."
I'd invited my mama. my neighborhood.
everybody out the next week.
[audience whooping]
I went and got a suit.
had the tie. everything.
As soon as I walked up in the club.
I seen two dudes I owe some money to.
I said. "Oh. Lord."
That fucking radio done told everybody
to come up here.
They like. "I know where to find his ass
at that comedy show next week."
Two motherfuckers I owe money to.
so I'm nervous now.
Do you know
I went up on that stage and bombed?
Everybody booed me off the stage.
Wasn't funny.
I'll never forget.
I'm riding down the street.
I'm riding down Michigan Street.
And. uh. I'm crying
'cause I'm like. "Damn. I…"
I didn't… I… I've been a failure
since the first grade.
Fuck a life.
I've been failing since a baby.
[audience laughing loudly]
You know how that feel to keep failing?
So I'm riding. and I…
and I called my baby mama's auntie.
When she came. I said. "Janet."
I said. "remember
when you said I can come to Atlanta?"
"I'm ready to get away from here.
I'm trying to be a comedian."
She said. "Mike. I got bad news."
I said. "What?"
She said. "Mike. I got married."
She said. "I got married.
I got a new husband. He's different."
"He ain't as cool as. you know.
I thought he was."
I went anyway. I said. "Fuck that shit."
I went and bought
a bus ticket from Greyhound.
My sister gave me $85 in food stamps.
That's when you could rip them out
of the little book. [mimics paper ripping]
I had $85 of food stamps.
And I had a .38
that had a pin in it fucked up.
And it skipped like this.
Click. click. wow!
Click. click. click. wow!
So if you stayed for them clicks.
it was gonna pop you on the third one.
So you can stay there and look at
the raggedy-ass gun if you want to.
It's gonna pop.
[audience laughing]
So by the time I get to Atlanta.
I called Janet on the phone.
So I said. "Janet. I'm in Atlanta."
She said. "Mike. it's 3:00 in the morning.
What you doing in Atlanta?"
I said. "I came anyway."
She said. "I told you
you couldn't come down."
I said. "Janet. I'll tell you what."
"In the morning. come pick me up
and take me to the Salvation Army."
I was gonna… I… This is how…
I wanted to change my life that bad
that I told her. "Come pick me up.
take me to the Salvation Army."
"I'mma sleep with the homeless people
'cause I just wanted
to get the fuck away from Indiana
'cause I knew I was gonna die
or go to prison."
I said. "I got a talent."
I found my…
I found my talent. which was comedy.
I knew I was going to get down there.
So she was riding with me.
And we're riding down 85.
and she started crying.
And. uh…
[audience murmurs]
[voice breaking] …she said. "Mike…"
[audience clapping. cheering. whistling]
She said. "Mike. I can't take you to…
I can't take you to the homeless."
"I can't take you there."
She said. "You can come and stay with me.
but my husband works second shift."
"You can't come out the basement
till 3 o'clock."
[audience laughing loudly. clapping]
So I'm in the basement hiding
like Anne Frank.
I hear the TV on. I hear people walking.
but I can't move yet.
About two weeks then went past.
I done snuck upstairs. man.
and he hadn't went to work.
I come up out the basement.
I got a pair of boxer drawers on
and a bowl of cereal.
And when he turned around.
he said. "Who the fuck is you?"
I said. "I'm Janet's nephew."
He said. "I don't know no Janet's nephew."
So he called her on the phone.
She talked to him.
Me and him sat down.
I said. "Hey. man.
I'm just trying to save my life."
I told him everything I was trying to do.
The man let me live with them
for a whole year.
-Got me a job.
-[audience cheering. clapping]
So a whole year went past.
I got my tax check.
And I claimed one of my nephews on it.
so I could get an extra $500 on there.
You know how back in the day
you can claim somebody on the check?
I claimed my nephew on the taxes.
got an extra $500.
T.K. Kirkland.
a comedian named T.K. Kirkland.
You heard of T.K.?
T to the motherfucking K?
He said. "You a bad motherfucker. man.
but you ain't gonna make it in Atlanta."
"Where I got to go?"
"You either gotta go
to Hollywood or New York."
I said. "I'm going to Hollywood."
He said. "You ain't ready."
He said. "You need to move to New York."
The next week I was gone to New York.
He had a manager about this big
named Dave Klingman.
Looked like a little Jewish dude.
Looked like Danny DeVito.
I went to New York.
and I met him at Port Authority.
He picked me up.
took me all around New York.
started taking me in comedy clubs.
The first comedy club I went in.
my man Royale that's directing the show.
he was hosting it.
It was snow all on the ground.
It was right in Brooklyn.
He… After he took me to the comedy club.
he said. "Man. you good."
"But you need… you need a little work.
so you're gonna have to go
back to Indiana."
I'm sadder than a motherfucker.
I gotta go back to Indiana.
I'm crying 'cause I know it's over with.
I done failed again.
On my way back there.
every white person got a Black friend.
Not every white person.
but a lot of you motherfuckers got
Black friends.
[audience laughing. clapping]
This little Jewish dude had
a Black friend named TC.
And TC. he said. "Man." he said.
"I wanna introduce you to somebody."
'Cause I was talking shit.
I'm from the hood and shit.
I done called the white men.
three. four white men. all kind of shit.
"I'mma introduce you to somebody."
So he introduced me to TC.
TC was a professional squatter.
He knew how to squat.
He… he became friends
with real rich white people
and squatted at their house
while they're gone out of town.
So he was letting me live
in these white people's house
while they was gone.
He's like. "Get out of here by Tuesday."
I'm in the white people's house.
Donny Lalonde…
There was a boxer named Donny Lalonde.
I'm in his apartment. right?
I'm down in SoHo.
I'm living in his apartment.
but they're selling the apartment.
I'm lying in the motherfucker on an…
on an air mattress.
Me and a girl lying in there.
And the lady walks in
to show somebody the…
"Oh God!"
I said. "I'm getting out of here.
I ain't supposed to be in here."
The first show that I ever did in New York
was called New York Undercover.
I don't know
if you remember New York Undercover.
But it had Malik Yoba
and another little Spanish dude.
[audience clapping. cheering]
Yeah. then I did Showtime at the Apollo.
Remember ♪ Showtime at the Apollo ♪ ?
But I… I came as an entertainer.
and you know who I was on the show with?
Destiny's Child. That's…
They wasn't even nobody yet.
They got out of an old raggedy-ass limo.
They walked up in the thing.
We was all dusty.
I'm telling you some real shit.
This early '90s. We all dusty.
Ain't nobody got shit.
Man. I did the Apollo
then I got on Def Comedy Jam.
I did Def Comedy Jam.
[audience cheering. clapping]
Then I got on the Def Comedy Jam Tour.
I said. "Oh. man. I gotta go now.
I gotta… It's time to go to LA."
So I took a bus from New York to LA.
Took seven days to get to here.
[audience laughing]
I called a buddy named Red Grant.
I said. "Man. I'm out here."
He said. "Man. I ain't got no furniture
in my house.
but you come sleep on my floor."
I went over to Red Grant's house.
sleeping on his floor.
While I'm staying in the apartments.
it was apartments called Watseka Trails.
I'm living in apartments
over at Watseka Trails.
I ran into a little young dude. man.
but he had a good-ass heart.
He was a good dude. His name was Marcus.
He was telling everybody
he was my manager.
We riding around. "This… this my manager."
Uh. but I didn't know who he was.
I didn't know. [chuckles]
People was like.
"You know who that is though."
I said. "No. he's nice to me.
I don't know what the fuck he do."
[audience laughing]
Man. we riding around.
Do a show at the comedy club.
We at The Comedy Store.
and when I got offstage. Marcus said.
"Man. Ice Cube wants to holler at you."
When I turned around.
Ice Cube and John Singleton
were standing right there.
[audience cheering. clapping]
I said. "Oh. man."
Ice Cube said. "What up?"
I said. "What's up?"
He said. "Can you act?"
I said. "Hell yeah. I can act."
[audience laughing]
I started auditioning for the movie.
He made me audition for that movie
about seven times.
Every time I thought I had the movie.
he looked at me. kept going like this…
Like. "You got the movie."
And I was looking at him like.
"Thank you."
[audience laughing]
But every time I come back.
it was more comedians reading for it.
I'm like. "Oh. he playing with my head."
So I got the role. I got the role.
[audience cheering. clapping. whistling]
I called my mother.
My mother was living in some apartments.
man. and I called my mother.
I said. "Mama. what you want?"
She said. "Just buy me a washer and dryer.
That's all I want."
I said. "I'mma buy you a house."
She said. "No.
you're gonna fuck my Social Security up."
[audience laughing loudly]
I get $700 a month.
and you're not finna
fuck my Social Security up.
'Cause she wouldn't let me
give her no check or nothing
'cause the Social Security people.
I had to fold the money up
and… and back it to her like this
and slide it to her.
[audience laughing]
Sometimes she pulled back.
I said. "What's wrong?"
She said. "They got ways
of finding out everything."
I said. "Mama. we in the kitchen.
Fuck Social Security."
[audience laughing]
And I've been sober for 20 years.
[audience cheering. clapping]
I've been sober for 20 years.
I work with some of the best
actors and actresses in the world.
you know what I mean?
First movie I did was Next Friday.
-[audience cheering. clapping]
-The… Yeah.
The second movie I did was
All About the Benjamins.
[audience cheering. clapping. whistling]
I was on coke by then.
I'm in the motherfucking mood.
Go watch that movie again.
The guy is higher than a motherfucker.
When I was saying… [beatboxing]
♪ 15. 30. 35. 40 ♪
-[vocalizing]
-[audience joining in]
♪ Forty-five. forty-seven ♪
I was on coke like a motherfucker.
[audience laughing. scattered applause]
[woman whooping] Love you!
I did Bernie Mac's last movie. y'all.
-It was called Soul Men. y'all.
-[audience cheering]
I was on the set with Bernie Mac
in his last movie. man.
I… I… Man. you couldn't pay for this shit.
I'm sitting there talking to Bernie Mac.
and he had a oxygen tank. man. he was…
Yeah. he had a oxygen tank.
but one thing I could say about him.
he was still having fun.
He was still talking shit.
He was like. "Fuck these motherfuckers.
Punk motherfuckers."
[audience laughing]
And I said.
"Bernie Mac. give me some advice."
"What's your best advice
you can give a young comic?"
He said. "Don't do nothing for money."
I said. "Huh?"
[audience laughing loudly]
You can't tell…
tell no young. poor-ass comedian that.
[chuckling]
The next movie I did was. uh.
Welcome Home Roscoe Jenkins.
[audience cheering]
Then I did a movie called
Jumping the Broom.
[audience] Yeah!
Then I did a movie called Petey Greene.
-You ain't never seen that. have you?
-[audience laughing]
Go check it out.
Me. Don Cheadle. Taraji. uh. Chiwetel.
Go check it… These is independent films.
Then I did another movie
with. uh. Forest Whitaker called Vipaka.
And I played a nigga
in all these movies. y'all.
[audience laughing]
And I got a chance to work
with the great Whitney Houston. man.
-And just…
-[audience cheering]
Yeah. just coming on the set with her
every day was crazy
'cause she come…
she didn't wanna fuck with nobody but me.
She said. "Let's go smoke a cigarette."
And me and her on…
This how she was on the side
of the building smoking a cigarette.
[audience laughing]
I said. "This the best time
to ask Whitney Houston some real shit."
I said. "Did Ike and Tina have anything
on you and Bobby Brown?"
She said. "Hell no!"
[audience laughing loudly]
They didn't have shit on us!
I just wanna tell y'all. man.
the whole time I was on that journey.
I was delusional.
And I'd just like to tell y'all
that it's okay to be delusional.
You know what I'm saying?
Sometimes… you gotta be delusional.
You gotta be outta your motherfucking mind
to be successful. to become great.
You gotta be blissful.
[audience clapping. whistling. cheering]
Delusion comes from trauma.
It comes from not being accepted.
So whatever you gotta do to make it.
to become who you need to become.
stay delusional.
I'm Mike Epps. man. I love y'all.
Yaamava'!
["Can't Get Over You"
by Mike Epps playing]
♪ Climb the highest mountain around ♪
♪ But I can't get over you ♪
♪ I can't get over you ♪
♪ Fast as a jet aeroplane on foot I can ♪
♪ Beat the Japanese bullet train ♪
♪ But I can't get over you ♪
♪ I can't get over you ♪
♪ Every day without you. girl
You know that I'll be getting better ♪
♪ Can't let you break me down ♪
♪ Oh no. Lord. I can't let her ♪
♪ Do ♪
♪ Do me the way she do ♪
♪ Every day without you. girl
You know that I'll be getting better ♪
♪ Can't let you break me down ♪
♪ Oh no. Lord. I can't let her ♪
♪ Do ♪
♪ Do me the way she do ♪
♪ I can see through buildings
With X-ray vision ♪
♪ I can look through suckers'
Planned-out decisions ♪
♪ But I can't see through you ♪
♪ Can't get over you ♪
♪ Stronger than my two-ton Ford ♪
[song fades]